# Data Description
1.	My research is on soil health management in hop yards dealing with cover cropping practices. We are interested in finding out what impact long term (10+ years) cover cropping practices in Yakima, WA have on hop yards in comparison to short term (about 1-2 years) cover cropping practices in the Willamette Valley, OR. There are around ten soil health metrics we will be evaluating such as pH, aggregate stability, and carbon and nitrogen values. Additionally, we will collect information from the growers about their field site, management practices, and crop history. Based on the values we produce, we aim to inform hop growers about the practices we find to be associated with better soil health. 
2.	The data that we will be using to answer our research questions are all non-human subject data, mostly numerical results, some observational data, with most data produced from experimental procedures. In addition, we are also collecting character or text data such as soil texture classes (silt loam) or information about the management practices growers use for tillage, nutrient applications, etc. There are around 10 soil health metric data sets, along with several routine questions for growers about the hop yards. Most of the data below are collected through our protocols with our most used instruments are a centrifuge, an incubator, drying ovens, and scales for weight measurements. We do have other more advanced machinery to collect greenhouse gas emissions from microbial respiration and a soil texture machine that analyzes particle size.
The soil health metrics we are collecting:
        1.	pH
        2.	Texture
        3.	Microbial respiration/water holding capacity
        4.	Aggregate stability
        5.	Bulk density
        6.	POM, MAOM
        7.	Carbon/nitrogen 
        8.	DNA
        9.	Enzyme activity (2 tests)
        10.	TBD mint incubation (in initial discussion phase still)
3.	The amount of data generated is somewhat unknown but less than 1 GB. Each soil health metric as listed above produces around 1000 KB, by ten different variables, over a period of 2 years of collection, in addition to grower metadata questions, roughly equals a total of 500 MB I would guess. 

# Roles and responsibilities
1.	Regarding the lab I work in, we are a small team of six people. Three of our lab group are undergraduate student workers, and then there is our lab technician, my PI, and myself. The data management plan thus far has solely been the responsibility of my PI. Going forward, my PI and I have decided that it would be beneficial for both of us if I take on some of that responsibility as well. Data management in the lab has a similar story. The undergrad students and the lab technician collect the data in the appropriate form as guided by my PI, and then my PI has been the only person analyzing the accuracy of the results, figuring out the statistics, and analyzing the meaning of the results. My project largely deals with these results to find out whether cover cropping has a positive impact on soil health metrics for the hop growers. Therefore, my PI and I will be the two people working on all the data handling. My PI will continue to be the head of quality control, creation and maintenance of the file organizing system, and archiving and preservation. While all members of the lab generate and collect data, our lab technician also assists my PI in machinery maintenance, protocol creation, and some data organization. I will be assisting with much of the metadata generation and data analysis. 
If one of our lab members left the project, it would only be critically important for data management specifically if it was my PI. The undergrad students have the important role of conducting protocols, and our lab technician does much of the lab upkeep such as purchasing, instrument management, and scheduling to keep the lab environment running smoothly. If I happened to leave the project, it would be unfortunate, but my PI has handled the data individually for a couple of years now. 
2.	There are no formal data management requirements that our research data must comply with. Our data is on plant and soil materials so there is no sensitive or human subject data associated with our lab. 
3.	Our data is stored in multiple locations. All of our data is collected and stored in Box through OSU, with most of the data being recorded on OneNote as a backup system. There are some instruments that specifically require a USB drive to retrieve the information from, but this data is then uploaded to Box right away. In addition, my PI has a copy of the data stored in the files on her computer. 
4.	The backup strategy our lab has is to store our data in Box through OSU, with various backup systems depending on how that data is collected (machine, physically recorded on paper, etc.). In total, the current system has 1-2 copies of the data stored. This process is mainly automatic, with some exceptions such as the USB drive that needs to be manually uploaded to Box. We do not utilize a shared network drive often, but some files and data do get collected to a shared network drive first, before being uploaded to Box. I do not believe that the shared network drive is backed up besides the copy that we upload to Box. The cloud system of Box should maintain the data that is generated during my project, but I will not be able to access it due to it being on OSU’s Box system. There is room for improvement of this system, such as implementing a physical copy of the data being created that is updated regularly. 

# Data standards and metadata
# Storage and security
# Access and data sharing
# Archiving and preservation
